[MUSIC PLAYING]
MATT GAUNT: So in
this mini tip, we're
going to be looking
Service Worker Toolbox.
I'm Matt Gaunt.
I've got Addy
Osmani with me, so--
ADDY OSMANI: Addy
Osmani, Esquire.
MATT GAUNT: Be
awesome to each other.
So yes.
Service Worker
Toolbox is a library
that basically helps you with
building out a service worker.
ADDY OSMANI: Is
Service Worker Toolbox
useful for, like, runtime stuff?
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
It's largely for runtime
stuff, but it also
does some precaching
and other bits.
Generally, it's like any
boilerplate stuff that you
would always have to write and
some of the best practices,
this just breaks into, like,
much easier, cleaner APIs.
ADDY OSMANI: Cool.
MATT GAUNT: So that's
the end goal of it.
And the entire goal of this
mini tip is just to show you
how to get it set up to use it.
And all we're
going to do is just
cache one web page that will
basically serve offline.
So steps are going to be
register a service worker.
We then need to grab SW Toolbox.
We're then going to
precache our page.
And then we're going to serve
that page up from the cache.
ADDY OSMANI: That sounds legit.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
Addy pointed out
that I didn't need
to put numbers next to an
editor with line numbers, but.
ADDY OSMANI: Some people
would call it redundant,
but I'm not going to say that.
MATT GAUNT: So the first
step is going to be
we need to actually check
whether Service Worker is
supported, which we can
do with that if check,
if service worker navigator.
And if it is, we need to
register a service worker.
So we're going to register.
And I'm going to
create a random file,
and I'm going to call it
sw.js and put it at the root.
Putting it at the root
is quite important
because it means it can control
any part of your web page.
And that will return a promise.
So we've got then and catch.
Then we'll basically
do the callback
if the registration
was sucessful.
Catch will be if there was any
errors or anything like that.
ADDY OSMANI: OK.
So using promises here.
There's an article by Jake
on this stuff from, like,
last year or the year before.
MATT GAUNT: Super
good, super thorough.
Probably has a couple of poop
jokes in there because Jake.
But yeah.
We'll link to that in
the YouTube comments
because if you're
new to promises,
definitely worth checking out.
So I'm adding some
logging because, you know,
I need to check whether
it actually works or not.
I did add in some stupid
errors when I first tried this.
So yeah.
It's done, boom.
No service workers registered.
And the reason for
that is that sw.js file
doesn't actually exist.
So got to make it.
As you can tell, I'm
really efficient at typing.
And because a service worker
is just normal JavaScript,
we can just dump in,
like a console log,
to make sure it's working.
And Chrome Dev Tools will
show us that message.
ADDY OSMANI: Yay.
MATT GAUNT: Hello
from service worker.
And yay, it registered.
So that's all good.
So first step, registering
a service worker.
We've covered that.
Next step is to
add in SW Toolbox.
Before we can add it
in, we've got to get it.
So you can get it
from NPM or Bower.
I prefer NPM for all the things.
So go grab that.
And the GitHub page has an
example of what you need to do,
which is Import Scripts.
And what Import Scripts
does is basically,
for a service worker, it
will go and grab that file,
but it will also cache
that file for you
and make sure it all works.
So you can always
rely on that being--
if there's any problems
with it being pulled down
or anything, Service
Worker won't install.
So that's all nice and handy.
So we Import Scripts.
And it's all funky.
I'm going to ignore that bit
because, you know, reasons.
And once we import
it, we can actually
use it by just Toolbox.
So we add it to the Service
Worker's global scope.
And we can do
toolbox.options.debug
equals true.
Now, this is really handy when
you first start out using this
and if you run into
any problems with it,
but it does get pretty
spammy pretty quick.
So if I refresh, there you go.
Service Worker
Toolbox now printing
out a load of different logs.
As you start using this more,
this will get full of stuff.
But for now, it's really useful.
We know it's working.
So the next step is going to
be we need to actually precache
our home page.
So what that means is when the
Service Worker's installed,
it will go and grab
index page and save it.
So precache is a method.
It takes an array of strings.
And it will cache
whatever's in there.
ADDY OSMANI: So that's an
array of different filenames
that you want to
precache, right?
MATT GAUNT: Yes.
So you could do CSS, JavaScript
files, anything you want.
So just doing that, we
can go refresh the page.
And then Toolbox
will be like, hey,
I've got some precached
stuff, precache list slash.
ADDY OSMANI: Nice.
So this stuff gets precached
into the Service Worker Cache
API?
MATT GAUNT: Yes.
ADDY OSMANI: Sweet.
MATT GAUNT: So it's
different to the HTTP cache.
This is the cash
that you control
and Service Worker or
the actual web page
can view what's inside it.
But that won't
actually do anything
right now because we need
to actually tell the service
worker that when you see this
/ request, return something.
And what that return
is you can control.
So here we're saying, for a
get request on the rooter,
and when it's a / get request,
I want you to use the caching
mechanism toolbox.fastest.
ADDY OSMANI: OK.
So it's got toolbox.fastest.
What are the other
options that it supports
and how do they differ?
MATT GAUNT: There's
cache only, network only.
They're fairly self-explanatory.
But toolbox.fastest I've
used in this example
because what it does is it
makes one check in the cache
and then it does one
request to the network.
ADDY OSMANI: Oh.
MATT GAUNT: And whichever one
is the fastest to respond wins.
So normally, it's
always the cache.
But the nice thing is once
the network request comes in,
it will update the cache.
And it will be clear why that's
important in a short while
because I'm going to show you
a demo of why it's useful.
ADDY OSMANI: Sweet.
MATT GAUNT: So I'm doing
some Control-Shift refreshes
because I need to force a
refresh of the Service Worker,
and the Shift basically
makes it happen.
So we've got some extra logging.
You can see like strategy
cache being printed now.
And that's because it's
actually serving up
the web page from the cache.
Awesome.
To make sure it's
definitely working,
you can go to Network
Panel, click on Offline.
Do another refresh.
And you'll notice that
the page is working
even though we're offline.
Awesome.
The font has changed because
Google Fonts is being used
and it can't actually
pull them down.
ADDY OSMANI: So you
can also set up Toolbox
to offline your Google Font
stuff as well if you want to.
MATT GAUNT: You most
certainly can because it
supports [INAUDIBLE].
So if I now change the HTML
page and refresh the page,
because we're offline,
it's not going
to change because there's
nothing it can do.
If I change the no
throttling and refresh,
it's gone back with the fonts,
but it's still the same thing.
If I refresh again, this
time, because of the fastest,
it's updated the
cache from the network
and now we got a new change.
ADDY OSMANI: That's
kind of nice.
MATT GAUNT: So toolbox.fastest
is like a really safe option
because it means as you're going
along, you'll cache things,
but you'll also update them
over time, which is really nice.
The problem is it's quite
wasteful because it basically
means you're not really doing
anything other than having
a cache as you're
going along, which
you can make a lot better.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah.
MATT GAUNT: So there's
a couple of mechanisms,
and it's too much for me to
cover in this mini tip, but--
ADDY OSMANI: This is your
way of saying you're lazy.
MATT GAUNT: No.
I'm saying that right now,
we need to find some better
options for it.
It will all be good.
But generally, there's
a couple of options.
You can use things like,
if it's a static site,
maybe build date or a
build version of some sort.
If there's a way with things
like CSS and JavaScript,
if you're using
file revisioning,
that's really handy
because you can precache.
Just say only use
the cache because I
know it's going to be there.
And basically, once the
file revision updates,
your Service Worker updates.
And then basically, everything
will just train on from there.
The browser will update
your Service Worker.
Yeah.
And then there's
also SW Precache
as well, which does loads
of crazy stuff with your
build process and
basically gives you
a really efficient
way of doing things.
ADDY OSMANI: And it
generates you a Service
Worker with everything set up.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
But it's a bit more
of an all or nothing.
It's a bit more configured
at the initial set up.
But it does result in something
really solid at the end.
So you've got two options.
SW Toolbox is great
if you're first
tinkering with Service
Worker tool, service workers
in general, it's really nice.
ADDY OSMANI: Cool.
So people should probably go
check out the Service Worker
Toolbox and SW Precache build
tools and libraries over
on Web Fundamentals.
MATT GAUNT: Yes.
ADDY OSMANI: Yes, maybe.
Or GitHub.
ADDY OSMANI: Or GitHub.
MATT GAUNT: I don't mind.
Either.
They're both up there.
ADDY OSMANI: They're both good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]